*This repository shows 10 files that were used to derive results for the thesis on "who and why engages in partnerships in the shared autonomous transport / autonomous transport vehicle industries".* 

**Files Chapter 3 (Data Selection)**
* 'AllInOneCSV' (Excel CSV) that shows all scraped news from newsrooms of companies included in scope.
* 'Finding_Announcements_with_keywords' (Python Code File) for filtering out news that contain partnership relevant keywords
* 'Clustering AV company descriptions' (Python Code File) for clustering more than 2400 companies flagged as belonging to the  "autonomous vehicle" industry. On basis of their Crunchbase descriptions, it was possible to illustrate the different types of companies in the industry, shedding light on the value chain to be expected in the industry.
* 231203_CB_selected descriptions (Excel File) for collecting data on all companies mentioned from Crunchbase


**Files Chapter 4 (Results and Discussion)**
* 'Gephi Outputs SVG' shows the output from Gephi files in SVG. To view the files, software installment is necessary (https://gephi.org/).
* 'DualCircular' (Gephi file) that shows visually the partnering companies per use case (visualizing answer to the WHO question) *
* 'Announcement Network by purpose' (Gephi file) showing visually the partnering companies and the type of purpose (i.e. reason) and structure (commitment level of partnership) per partnership (visualizing the WHY question) *
* 'Manual Labeling' (Excel File) showing manual labels (by reason and commitment) of announcements into typology of Barnes et al.. These labels are the basis for most discussions in the thesis. 
* 'Spearman Correlation' (Python Code) for efficiently calculating five correlations: one for each use case, and a correlation where all companies and their announcement labelings are correlated jointly
* 'LDA model for 179 titles' (Python Code) for preprocessing and running LDA model on 179 keyword matching news articles as an alternative to manual labeling.
* 'lda_visualization_t=5' (HTML file that shows the pyvis visualization for making sense of the LDA at t=5). The final LDA model, that has the best perplexity / coherence and human judgement scores

**Abstract**

This thesis investigates 179 partnership announcements of 39 predefined companies from Ridepooling, Ridehailing, Trucking and Last-Mile deliveries with respect to partners chosen, and the reasons for partnering up. Ridepooling and Ridehailing are parts of the shared autonomous vehicle companies (SAV), whilst Trucking and Last-Mile are parts of “autonomous transport vehicles (ATV). 
Studying partnerships is getting more relevant due to increasing specialization of companies within their respective value chain segments which makes vertical integration within the autonomous mobility business chains more inefficient. Simultaneously high transaction costs, production costs and unsafe returns in uncertain businesses favor partnerships as a middle ground to gain access to complementary resources instead of traditional purchase agreements or vertical integration.
Answers on who the companies are will be provided in terms of industry and layer membership. Answers on why companies enter agreements will be given in terms of purposes and agreement structure, as labeled. Attempts to offer standardized labels through Latent Dirichlet Analysis (LDA) with an ideal topic size of 13 topics turned out to be too ambiguous for reliable analysis. 
To offer more general descriptive insights into what type of companies enter partnerships, company metrics like funding, headcount and public status are correlated with the manually labeled partnership variables.
The correlation analysis revealed that highly funded and staffed companies are generally observed with lower partnership frequencies, consistent with resource-based view arguing that partnerships are especially relevant to small companies for gaining complementary resources. Also, correlations revealed that public companies co-occur with higher count of customer relevant partnerships, which is consistent with some findings on motives of public companies to report customer orientation. 
On the ATV side, lower product orientation of Last-Mile and higher focus on partnerships with customers (grocery stores and restaurants) was found. This argues for a high (product) self-sufficiency of Last-Mile companies. Also, from observing that Ridepooling and Last-Mile companies tend to engage in short-term partnerships, the study provides reasons to believe and study in future research if the Ridepooling and last-mile industry are less advanced and mature compared to Ridehailing and trucking, respectively, which show highest level of committed partnerships, involving equity. 
The contribution of the thesis is to broaden the literature on SAV and ATV beyond traditionally high technology and behavioral orientation and work for a better understanding of with whom, and for what reasons companies organize their business processes through partnerships. Also, the contributions are two landscape visualizations of the autonomous driving industry. First, through network visualization of all 179 announcements with Gephi. This also revealed that off the 39 companies under review, 17 companies were forming a denser cluster, connected either through shared partner companies or relationships between scope companies. Secondly, through BERtopic clustering of 2400 descriptions of companies claiming to belong to the AD industry, it was shown that AD is becoming a buzzword that mobility companies wrongly associate themselves with.
